is it legal for unions to have the same tags as structs?

Gemini said
In the C programming language, the answer is no. It is illegal for a union to share the same tag name as a struct (or an enum) within the same scope.

This is because all tags—whether they belong to a struct, union, or enum—share a single, unified "Tag Name Space."

1. The Single Tag Name Space
C defines specific "name spaces" to prevent identifiers from colliding. While a variable can have the same name as a struct tag (because they live in different name spaces), all tags compete for the same slot.

Why this fails:
If you try to compile the following code, the compiler will throw a "redefinition" error:

C
struct Data
{
    int i;
};

union Data
{ // ERROR: 'Data' redefined as a different kind of symbol
    float f;
};
2. Implications for Your Compiler
Since you are using LLVM to build your compiler, your symbol table must reflect this rule. Here is how you should structure your internal logic:

The Tag Symbol Table
When your parser encounters a tag (e.g., after the keyword struct, union, or enum), it should look in the Tag Name Space for that current scope.

Conflict Check: If Data already exists in the Tag Name Space as a RecordType (struct), and you encounter union Data, your compiler must trigger a semantic error.

LLVM Mapping: In LLVM IR, both struct and union are often represented by llvm::StructType. However, a C union is a "special" case where all members have an offset of 0. Even if the backend representation is similar, your frontend must enforce the C language restriction that their names cannot overlap.

3. The "Typedef" Loophole
While tags cannot overlap, a typedef alias can share a name with a tag because they live in different name spaces (Tags vs. Ordinary Identifiers).

This is legal:

C struct Data
{
    int i;
};
typedef union
{
    float f;
} Data; // LEGAL: 'struct Data' (tag) and 'Data' (typedef) are separate.
In this scenario:

struct Data refers to the structure.

Data refers to the union.

4. Summary Table for Your Symbol Table Logic
Identifier	Name Space	Can conflict with...
struct T	Tags	union T, enum T
union T	Tags	struct T, enum T
typedef T	Ordinary	variables, functions, other typedefs
Implementation Advice
When implementing the lookup function in your compiler:

Identify the kind of name being parsed (Is there a struct/union keyword before it?).

Search only the Tag Name Space for those keywords.

If no keyword is present, search the Ordinary Name Space (where your typedef aliases live).